Caching Keys. Think this might be two articles. (#71)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2019/2019-12-01-ensure-you-correctly-build-caching-keys.md

---
title: "Ensure you correctly build your caching keys"
description: "Why won't this model update? Oh."
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2019/ensure-you-correctly-build-caching-keys'
  alt: 'Keys'
  credit:  Chunlea Ju
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/8fs1X0JFgFE"

---

> Caching is a hugely powerful tool in maintaining performance of often requested pages and partials in your application.

Reviewer: *maintaining _the_ performance

> It can also be a cause of confusing behaviours (mostly “stuff not updating on the page”) when you test your app in a production environment.

Reviewer: Omg — tell me about it!! 😩

Reviewer: *It can also cause confusing behaviour....

> Rails has great built-in support for view fragment caching. The framework includes an elegant way of invoking and busting the cache based on the model `id`, it’s `updated_at` timestamp and an automatically generated digest of the specific view template. You can find more details in the [Rails guide on caching](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching).

Reviewer: Mmm — maybe explain what this use or just literally explain "view fragment caching" instead of using the phrase.

"invoking and busting the cache" — I do understand, and maybe most will, but feels like a lot of jargon, esp. next to "view fragment caching".

*its `updated_at`

- Comma before "and"... 😌

## Instead of...

> ...just using the modal key in your key:

Reviewer: Have no idea what this means!!

Reviewer: Do you mean "in your view"? 

I still wouldn't know what this meant!

```ruby
class Event < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :attendees
end

class Attendee < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :event
  has_many :prerequistes
end

class Prerequistes < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :attendee

  scope :done, -> { where.not(completed_at: nil) }
end
```

### `app/views/events/show.html.erb`

```erb
<% @event.attendees.each do |attendee| %>
  <% cache [attendee] do %>
    <p>
      <%= attendee.name %>, <%= @event.name %><br />
      <small>
        <%= attendee.prerequistes.done.count %> done
      </small>
    </p>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

## Use

> ...a combined key, including the parent object

Reviewer: Colon or fullstop at end of this.

And at this point I'm still not sure exactly what we're trying to guard against/achieve here. Maybe the setup/opening narrative needs to be a bit clearer.

Reviewer: Maybe part of the problem is the sudden intro of the word 'key' here?

```ruby
class Event < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :attendees
end

class Attendee < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :event, touch: true
  has_many :prerequistes
end

class Prerequistes < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :attendee, touch: true
  scope :done, -> { where.not(completed_at: nil) }
end
```

### `app/views/events/show.html.erb`

```erb
<% @event.attendees.each do |attendee| %>
  <% cache [@event, attendee] do %>
    <p>
      <%= attendee.name %>, <%= @event.name %><br />
      <small>
        <%= attendee.prerequistes.done.count %> done
      </small>
    </p>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

## Why?

This is a ‘powerful tools enabling subtle bugs’ problem.

> Models that `belong_to` other models can often have a context. When we use the data from any “parent” model in a view-cached partial, you need to include that model in the cache key, or the view will not update with changes to that model.

Reviewer: Think this can be simplified a little bit.

> Additionally also be aware of nested models. If a model `has_many` objects and you neglect to use `touch: true` in the declaration of the “child” model’s `belongs_to` relationship then the cache key won’t change and you’ll see out of date information.

Reviewer: *You also need to be aware of nested models.

## Why not?

> It’s always worth checking whether you need caching at all. It is best to understand the performance improvements versus the possibility of maddeningly hard to find bugs.

Reviewer: *versus the possibility of introducing maddeningly-hard to find/maddeningly-hard-to-find (not sure)...bugs

> Caching bugs aren't apparent in the normal places we look for bugs; the code, the logs and in error reporting. Also your tests are unlikely to discover them as caching is typically turned off in development and test environments.

Reviewer: *_or_ in error reporting

> I’m definitely not saying “don’t cache” I'm just saying “be careful”.

Reviewer: Full stop before: "I'm just saying"...

Reviewer: What would the two articles be? Maybe the first is just introducing how to cache in Rails?

---
title: "Ensure you correctly build your caching keys"
description: "Why won't this model update? Oh."
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2019/ensure-you-correctly-build-caching-keys'
  alt: 'Keys'
  credit:  Chunlea Ju
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/8fs1X0JFgFE"

---

Caching is a hugely powerful tool in maintaining the performance of often requested pages and partials in your application.

It can also cause confusing behaviour (mostly “stuff not updating on the page”) when you test your app in a production environment.

> Rails has great built-in support for many types of caching, in particular the “view fragment caching”. This stores the resulting text  of parts your views in very fast storage, say Redis or Memcache, saving your application building the views every time a page is rendered.

Reviewer: *in particular _its "view fragment...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rails has great built-in support for many types of caching, in particular its “view fragment caching”. This stores the resulting text of parts of your views in very fast storage, say Redis or Memcache, saving your application building the views every time a page is rendered.
```

> The framework includes an elegant way of using the cache based on using the model `id`, it’s `updated_at` timestamp and an automatically generated digest of the specific view template. You can find more details in the [Rails guide on caching](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The framework includes an elegant way of using the cache based on a model's `id`, its `updated_at` timestamp, and an automatically-generated digest of the specific view template. You can find more details in the [Rails guide on caching](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching).
```

## Instead of...

> ...just using a single modal in your key, for a complex view

Reviewer: Still not clear on what this means, though the setup to the code example is way better than before. At this point, I'm like: what 'modal'?  What 'key'? What counts as a 'complex' view? What's a simple one?

Reviewer: Add a colon in any case!

end

class Attendee < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :event
  has_many :prerequistes
end

class Prerequistes < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :attendee

  scope :done, -> { where.not(completed_at: nil) }
end
```

### `app/views/events/show.html.erb`

```erb
<% @event.attendees.each do |attendee| %>
  <% cache [attendee] do %>
    <p>
      <%= attendee.name %>, <%= @event.name %><br />
      <small>
        <%= attendee.prerequistes.done.count %> done
      </small>
    </p>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

## Use

...multiple relevant models, including the parent object.

```ruby
class Event < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :attendees
end

class Attendee < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :event, touch: true
  has_many :prerequistes
end

class Prerequistes < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :attendee, touch: true
  scope :done, -> { where.not(completed_at: nil) }
end
```

### `app/views/events/show.html.erb`

```erb
<% @event.attendees.each do |attendee| %>
  <% cache [@event, attendee] do %>
    <p>
      <%= attendee.name %>, <%= @event.name %><br />
      <small>
        <%= attendee.prerequistes.done.count %> done
      </small>
    </p>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

## Why?

> This is a ‘powerful tools enabling subtle bugs’ problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is to mitigate against a ‘powerful tools enabling subtle bugs’ problem.
```

> When we use the data from any “parent” model in a view-cached partial, you need to include that model in the cache key, or the view will not update with changes to that parent.

Reviewer: Is it worth referring to 'parent' in this paragraph as this whole paragraph doesn't refer to any 'children'. It only refers to the model in question. You're basically trying to say: you need to reference any models you want updated in the cache key, right?

> You also need to be aware of nested models. If a model `has_many` objects and you neglect to use `touch: true` in the declaration of the “child” model’s `belongs_to` relationship then again the cache key won’t be “busted” and your view will show out of date information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to be aware of nested models. If a model `has_many` objects and you neglect to use `touch: true` in the declaration of the “child” model’s `belongs_to` relationship then, if there are changes to the child model, the cache key won’t be “busted”, and your view will show out-of-date information.
```

## Why not?

It’s always worth checking whether you need caching at all. It is best to understand the performance improvements versus the possibility of maddeningly-hard-to-find bugs.

> Caching bugs aren't apparent in the normal places we look for bugs; the code, the logs or in error reporting. Also your tests are unlikely to discover them as caching is typically turned off in development and test environments.

Reviewer: *the logs_,_ or in error reporting... 😅

> I’m definitely not saying “don’t cache”. I'm just saying “be careful”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I’m definitely not saying “don’t cache”. I'm just saying “be very careful”.
```
